So now let's talk about serving
up static files in Oak.
Usually we have some local JavaScript or
CSS that we want to serve up and
maybe we have a folder called public.
And inside of that folder, we have
another folder called style sheets.
And then inside of that folder, we have
another file called site.css, okay.
And then let's add some CSS to this file,
right.
So now what we wanna do is we wanna
reference this file from our template.
So I'm gonna go to the template, to our
layout template because we want this to
apply to everything in the application.
And I just wanna link to it.
So let's just do link.
And then let's go to
public/stylesheets/site.css.
Okay, now, we need some way to tell Oak,
when it sees this public URL here,
that it needs to serve up
the file that's inside, right?
We have to figure out how to tell
Oak to serve up static resources or
static assets,
which is what we're gonna do now.
So, to do that, we need to define
very creatively a route to handle it.
So we might do something like this.
Let's go back to our app file.
And we might define a route that says
like this is static files route.
And what we're doing here is just for
saying anything that comes on
public with PATH just serve up
the value that's in the PATH variable.
Because we know that PATH is gonna
contain stylesheets/site.css.
So we can do that, and the way that
we would return our result here,
we would just tell it to
send back the static file,
even though we haven't talked
about how we're gonna do that yet.
The problem is that this won't work,
because PATH right here,
is gonna be equal to in our case,
it's gonna be equal to stylesheets, right?
So sorry, it won't match the PATH.
That's the problem.
So path is gonna be stylesheets.
It's gonna look like this /site.css.
I don't know vs code keeps
changing this for me.
And the problem with that,
is that it's only gonna pull,
it won't match this URL because
this doesn't match this.
And so what we need to do is say like,
match this PATH,
and like everything that comes after it.
So everything that comes after public
should be considered the variable.
And we do that by just adding
a plus sign on the end.
It's kind of like a wild card.
And so it really won't match everything
that comes after public slash anything
will get matched here,
which is what we want.
Now we just need a way to
send back the static file.
So we go to our depths file here.
There is a method not that file,
this file.
There's a method here called, if we look
here, there's a function called send.
Let's just use this thing,
so we're gonna export it.
Okay, and then in our app file,
we wanna bring it in.
And we want to send the file back and
use it.
So, down here what we wanna do
is just send back the file.
So we could say send, right?
And then all we have to do is, pass in
the context and then the PATH to the file.
So we should be able to say ctx and
I think its path is the variable here.
Let me make just make sure
I'm doing that right.
Yeah, params that path,
and it's a promise.
So we need to await this.
So we're gonna send in the context and
then ctx.params.path.
But typescript does not like this,
because if we hover over it it says,
argument of type string undefined is not
assignable to parameter of type string.
In other words, this could be
undefined and that's not okay.
So we have to give it like an alternative
value here of empty string.
Typed languages, y'all,
that's just how it goes.
All right, so with that, we should be
able to send back that file now and
display the CSS in our page.
So let's go back here, refresh, and
let's see what's happening in our outside.
So we're getting a 404 file not found.
Why is that happening?
Well, let's see here.
Right now, we're not seeing
any errors in our application.
If you look at the console,
there's nothing in there, right?
But there's an error happening,
but we don't see it.
And that's because Oak swallows errors for
you unless you otherwise handle them.
You just don't see him,
but we can see them if we
just tell Oak a little bit about
how we wanna handle those errors.
So let's do that.
I'm just gonna say app.addeventlistener.
And we're gonna look for the error event.
And then on that we just wanna handle
we're just gonna pass in the error and
handle it.
So we'll just log into the console.
Like this.
Okay, and now Restarting,
now let us see if we can figure
out what is happening here.
Okay, so now we have got an error.
What does it say?
No such file or directory.
So it doesn't know it
can't find this file.
So what we could do here,
is we could just log and say like well,
what is the value of path?
Sorry, what is the value
of ctx.params.path.
This is one way to do it.
Probably the simplest way to do it.
And then refresh.
And then we can scroll back up and
it is stylesheets/site.css.
Well, the problem is,
it's in public/stylesheets/site.css.
So what can we do about that?
Well, one of the things
that we could do is,
use that current working
directory to specify a root here.
So on the send,
we have an options object that we can use.
So if I do this options, and
then we can specify the root directory.
And so our root directory would be Dino
dot the current working directory, right?
That's the path to the to the directory
we're in now plus public.
So let's just do it like this,
let's use a string template
literal to the current working
directory slash public.
All right, so
that hopefully that will work.
So let's go back to our app,
refresh, we have a stylesheet,
okay, because now we've
got the correct path.
There's actually a better way to do this.
If we were to go in and
do a little bit of debugging and
digging around here instead
of relying on the path
parameter here rather,
we can use ctx.params.
So no sorry ctx.url, what is it?
Sorry ctx.request.url.path name.
And that is always a string.
It's never undefined.
And by doing that,
we've made this code a little bit tighter.
And because it's gonna have the path name,
it's gonna include public.
So we don't need this anymore either.
So we could just say the root is,
Deno.cwd().
And this should still work.
Let's make sure we've restarted,
there we go, refresh.
And it does, all right?
So just a simpler way to return that same,
static file.
So now any file that we put in here, that
we can serve up with that static public
layouts, so we could come in and add
a new folder that's called JavaScripts.
And then we can put our Java
scripts in this folder, and
then reference them via
that relative URL and
any static file images, anything we want,
can now be served out of this folder.